Michael Means
Software Developer

Dallas, TX 75206
(903) 808-0914
colemeans51@gmail.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ColeMeans
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-means-34024011
WWW: https://github.com/mmeans51

Website, Portfolio, Profiles

https://github.com/mmeans51
portfolio link here

Professional Summary

Junior Software Engineer dedicated to improving skills through hands-on learning and development work. Proficient in mobile and desktop development environments. Adept at using REACT, JavaScript, and other programming languages to produce clean code. Well-organized and collaborative team player with strong communication and analytical abilities.

Professional Experience

February 2016 - Current
Riverbend Sandler Pools Plano, TX
Pool Technician

Exercised strong knowledge of swimming pool motors, pumps and filtration systems to service and monitor pool and equipment.
Demonstrated courtesy, respect and professionalism to promote company values and customer care.
Adjusted filter to circulate and remove small debris and foreign matter suspended in pool.
Maintained clean, safe and appropriately stocked company vehicle.
Assembled and disassembled filters for pool openings, closings and repairs.
Worked with diverse types of weather and ground conditions.
Tended to machines, troubleshot malfunctions and completed basic repairs to keep equipment fully functional and well-maintained.
Demonstrated to customers proper methods for operating equipment after it had been installed.
Liaised with internal departments to optimize productivity and efficiency.

April 2015 - January 2016
Gym Station Dallas, TX
Fitness Coach

Modified workout plans according to fitness levels and medical considerations.
Consulted with clients to define personal health needs, formulate effective fitness, nutritional or rehabilitation plans and improve overall well-being.
Developed strong member relationships with caring and collaborative approach.
Provided coaching about healthy lifestyle strategies.
Improved class participation by developing programs to meet needs relevant to age and activity levels.

February 2015 - May 2015
Muddle Bar Waco, TX
Security

Greeted guests professionally and courteously to cultivate welcoming atmosphere while making safety top priority.
Oversaw daily monitoring and patrolled buildings, grounds, and work sites.
Checked and verified photo identification prior to granting facility access.
Executed security rules and procedures and calmly and promptly escorted non-compliant individuals out of building.

January 2015 - April 2015
Hilton Embassy Suite Richardson, TX
Front Desk Clerk

Greeted guests at front desk and engaged in pleasant conversations while managing check-in process.
Answered multi-line phone system to respond to inquiries and transfer calls to correct departments and personnel.
Maintained transaction security by verifying payment cards against identification.
Used internal software to process reservations, check-ins and check-outs.
Maintained files and records by implementing effective filing systems that boosted efficiency and organization.
Liaised with housekeeping and maintenance staff to address requests and complaints made by guests.

April 2013 - August 2013
Splash Kingdom Canton, TX
Groundskeeper

Cleared public and private areas of debris before and after events.
Used trimmers and chainsaws for grounds maintenance, brush clearing and tree removal and thinning.
Provided expert lawn care, mulching, aerating and trimming around walks, walls and flower beds.
Applied mulch to garden beds for protection against weeds and unwanted growth.
Diagnosed lawn and garden issues and recommended targeted solutions.
Maximized water conservation, checking sprinkler spray angles and testing digital controller performance.

April 2012 - January 2013
Paredes Family Restaurant Mineola, TX
Bartender

Kept bar presentable and well-stocked to meet customer needs.
Performed opening and closing duties, printing sales reports, setting up for incoming shift, preparing cash drawers and taking inventory.
Organized bar inventory and storage procedures to keep stock within optimal levels and meet expected customer demands.
Followed alcohol awareness procedures for preventing excessive guest intoxication.
Adhered to state laws regarding alcoholic beverage services and customer regulations.

Musician and Outdoor Enthusiast

I've played drums and guitar in multiple bands over the past 10 years while trying to explore as much as i can on the side.

Skills

CSS
HTML
SASS
React
JavaScript
Web API's
Express.Js
Node.Js
MySQL
NoSQL
MongoDB
Python
AWS

Source and Version Control: Git, GitHub
Third Party APIs
Server Side APIs
Object Oriented Programming
Object Relational Mapping
Model View Controller
Progressive Web Applications
MERN Developer
Organization and Time Management
Eagerness to Learn New Technologies
Continuous Integration Systems
Database Schemas
Software Research and Development

Education

April 2022
University of Texas At Austin Austin, TX
Coding Bootcamp Certification Fullstack Software Development

December 2015
Texas State Technical College - Waco Waco, TX
Off Highway Diesel Mechanics Diesel Mechanics Technology

June 2012
Grand Saline High School Grand Saline, TX
High School Diploma